So let's talk about some of the practical applications of decorators.
I mean we've already seen them in classes right.
We saw how class method and static method were able to create class methods and static methods on the
class that the direct class can use.
And if you don't remember these just go back to those videos but I want to show you one of my favorite
examples of a decorator.
We're going to create our own what we're going to do is I want to have a performance
decorator.
And by the way this decorator doesn't exist in Python.
We're gonna build it from scratch.
What I want to do is be able to have a performance decorator that I can use during testing my code to
see how fast my code runs.
For example if I had a function let's say longtime that takes well a long time to complete.
So I'm going to do a really long loop and say for i in range of let's say all these numbers and I'm
just going to do a random calculation I.
Times five this function.
I want to know how well it performs.
How many milliseconds it takes to complete this.
So how can we built that first.
I'm going to do something that we haven't talked about yet that we will.
Something about modules in built in modules.
So for now we're not going to talk about this too much but we're going to import from the time module
something called Ball time again something that we'll talk about in the module section of the course.
I'm essentially saying hey when I installed Python or in my case when I'm using this ripple it has access
to this time if I ask for it.
And in this case I'm saying hey I want to use this time object or module that I get from Python.
And then here we're going to create our decorator following the pattern that we've learned.
I'm going to say define performance and performance is going to accept a function just like we've seen
before.
And in here we'll have our wrapper.
So let's say wrapper function and wrapper function.
If you remember it's going to be flexible by taking in Star arcs and star star keyword args so that
we can pass it however many parameters we want because we don't know how this function.
How many parameters is going to have.
And I want to be able to use performance on all my functions now in here first.
What we're going to do is we're going to have the result of the function be the function that we receive
right here and then simply say run the function with Star ARGs and star star keyword marks and finally
at the end of this I want to return the results.
And then finally we're going to return the wrapper so nothing we haven't seen before.
I could have just done return here or just ran the function but I'll show you why I did it this way.
In a second.
Right now our function doesn't really do anything if I click Run while nothing happens if I do a long
time and I run this function
it just took a long time to run but that's it.
Nothing happens.
This is where we make things interesting.
We want to calculate from the beginning of running this function to the end of running this function
and we can use time module to do this.
I can create a variable time one for the start and simply say time.
So I'm running this time function that's going to start a time and say hey this initial time is going
to be T1 and after this function our main function longtime gets run I'm going to say t to and say hey
what's the time right now.
So this time we'll check what time it is now and then we're gonna run this function and then this time
is going to check the time and however much difference there is between these two is how long this part
took.
Right.
So all we do is say print an F string and say it took t one minus t to write and this actually returns
a millisecond so I'll just say m s four milliseconds and that's it.
I've wrapped my function with just this extra timepiece and then I'm printing as soon as we run the
function.
How long it took.
So let's check it out.
If I now run my longtime function right here and I click run
all right I get a minus number because I messed up here.
This should be T2 minus t 1 because the time on t 1 Some time passes and then T2 so t is always going
to be larger than t 1.
If I run this all right it took point once six milliseconds.
I think this is actually seconds.
Now let's make this long function even longer.
If I go like this and click Run
oh boy that took one point nine seconds.
What if I make it even longer.
If I click Run and this is the part where I keep talking until the function runs because there's gonna
be an awkward silence otherwise hopefully this end soon because I have nothing else to talk about.
Come on.
This is getting off words.
All right.
Come on.
Oh boy am.
Going to fast forward through here homeboy.
It took 19 seconds.
That's that's pretty bad but I now have this decorator that I can give to pretty much any function in
my program and actually measure the performance of my function pretty useful right.
I could have this piece of code and before let's say I deploy my code or put my code out into the world
I can test how performing at my functions are and maybe I can optimize things in different ways.
Very very useful.
And I did that in just just a few lines of code nine lines of code now.
Mind you this performance decorator depends on the machine and how fast your CPSU and memory are on
your computer.
So for what took me 19 seconds might take you a lot more or a lot less depending on your machine.
But this is a nice way to compare functions relatively.
So I hope after this you see the power of decorators decorators are used a lot in Python libraries and
frameworks where frameworks that we're going to talk about like Django and flask use decorators maybe
you want to have some authentication decorator so you do authenticated where each function can only
be run if the user is authenticated maybe they are they have the privilege to run a function such as
logon to our Web site or maybe you just need a logging or logging decorator that just logs and lets
your database know that hey somebody has logged into your system or Hey somebody has purchased something
from Amazon or Hey somebody just requested a friend request.
There's so many uses for decorators and decorator is a hard topic.
You're not going to see them all over Python code they're just an extra feature that you can use as
you come more and more comfortable with python.
But I hope by the end of this hall you will least to understand them to maybe one day build your own
or use pre-built ones by libraries and frameworks.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.